My name is George Stagg. I'm a software engineer at Posit, and today I'm going to be chairing
this session, which is named Tidy Up Your Models. So the first person we have today
to speak to you is Ryan Timpey, and I'm going to pass straight on to him to get started.
Thank you.
Thank you. So last night at the reception, someone ran up to me, super excited to meet
me. I was like, yes, I made it, I'm nerd famous. But they thought I was Hadley Wickham.
So just pointing that out there. I'm not Hadley Wickham. My name is Ryan Timpey. I am a lead
data scientist at the Lego Group. My team and I build models to help our business understand
how all of our marketing, our trade promotions, our product launches, all that impacts our
sales and our brand health. I've been at the Lego Group for almost five years, and over
that time, the field of data science has really changed. As you might have noticed,
our studio is now Posit. My managers are always talking about production, and if you checked
out the title of my talk before you sat down, our models are now Tidy. And this change can
be challenging, especially when it impacts our work, but it can also be kind of fun and
rewarding to rethink how you do your day-to-day job. So this talk is about that. Some of the
recent fun and challenges I had while adapting to the changing world of data science were
off the Lego Group. So let's start with that first adventure. And I'm going to call my
changes adventures. It gets more fun. So when I joined the Lego Group, my first job was
to build an R package to do our modeling better. And I did that. I built a package. It was
simple, but it worked, and it answered some important questions for our business. For
no special reason at all, I'm going to represent that model on the screen as a red Lego brick.
No reason. And then over the four years, we had to do more with this package. We had
to add ways to add more data to the package and the model. We had to add more pre-processing.
We had to add more post-processing. And then we had to do more things to add business value
to make sure our stakeholders were actually using the models and driving change in the
organization. Then we kept doing this over and over and over, more data, more pre-processing
functions, more post-processing functions. And eventually, our pretty simple model and
package looked a lot more like this. And this happened because we grew our package organically.
It did everything we needed it to do. It ran some pretty awesome models, but it was getting
very difficult for my team and I to navigate this and have this package grow with us. So
as we need to make more changes and add more things, we need to find all those connections
and where to put each new step. And we came to the point where we weren't effective data
scientists and we needed to make a change. And so four years later, we had matured, we
knew exactly what we needed out of our package, and it was time to start over. So to do that,
we identified TidyModels. TidyModels is a framework that adds organization to your models.
So it takes that big messy pile of bricks and it stacks them. I never used TidyModels
before, and I needed to use it on my job. So I used this book to help me by Max and
Julia, who you will see on the stage in a few minutes. So today's talk, it's not a tutorial.
I'm not going to show you much code. I'm not going to show you how to really get started
with TidyModels. But after this conference, and if you're still super excited about TidyModels,
definitely check out this book, check out these websites, and it will have everything
you need to get started. Because that's what I did. I took this book, I followed it cover
to cover, took all those examples, applied them to my work at the Lego Group, and it
was a really good way to get started with TidyModels and to get started rewriting my package.
So TidyModels itself is a collection of packages. And each of those packages really helped solve
some big problem I was having with my models. So if you look at that red pre-processing
or sorry, the yellow pre-processing brick, recipes was a huge help here. So pre-processing
is a step that takes your raw data that might be human-readable, adds feature engineering,
and gets it ready to be machine-readable for your model. In my old package, the one with
all the big pile of Lego bricks, I had manually written a bunch of functions using dplyr and
TidyARC to do this pre-processing. And then every time I needed to access my data at different
parts of the modeling process, I'd grab those, call that function, it would run through all
the pre-processing steps. But as my data sets got bigger and bigger, this got to be
like it was a lot of overhead. It took way too long for this to run. My models were taking
a lot of time to run. It was also getting very difficult to control for data leakage
at each of those steps. So pre-processing, sorry, recipes solves that where you kind
of just list out your instructions in one spot, and then the TidyModel packages will
call that whenever needed, whenever the models need your data. Let's take a look at the red
brick right here. And parsnip was a huge help here. So this red brick is the core chunk
of code in my package that runs the modeling algorithm. In my old package, this chunk of
code was deeply nested in a series of functions. Or my Lego analogy, that one red brick was
buried deep in a pile of other bricks. And so every time I needed to call or make any
edits to that model, either small edits or big edits, I also had to change every single
function that relied upon it. Parsnip solves this by instead providing, one, a uniform
syntax to all the different modeling types in R, so whether it's XGBoost or its Bayesian
model. And with that, it helps you make sure your modeling process is modular. So now I
can swap out that red brick with other features or swap out the modeling algorithm entirely
and not have to worry as much about the data and the pre-processing and the post-processing
and all the other steps. Very minor changes there if I could swap out that red brick.
That was a huge help. Tune, again, was a huge help. My first time around, I had manually
written a simulated annealing algorithm to help me do my hyperparameter tuning, and that
was a really good experience for me. I got to learn how that algorithm works. But this
time around, I didn't want to do that again. It was a lot of work, and I knew how to do
it. I didn't want to manually write that a second time, so I just used Tune. Post-processing,
I used Broom. Broom takes all your raw model output and makes it into a tidy format, so
you can grab your residuals easily. You can grab your coefficients very easily. And probably
my favorite, though, is Workflows. Workflows takes a bunch of those bricks and clicks them
together. Now you have one single object that you can use for your modeling process.
And then that object can then be passed into other functions to help drive business value,
or it can even be passed into a production environment, and Vetiver can help here.
So in the end, I completely rewritten all my code. My package still did the same thing,
though. It just did it in a lot more organized way, and it was a lot easier for my team and
I to now grow this package and evolve with it. So now, as you get more requests from
our stakeholders, we have to add more things to the package, we know exactly where in this
pipeline it goes. But my favorite part is that this is all the advertised benefits of
Tidy Models. This is what the book will tell you. As my team and I started using this more
and more, we discovered a bunch of new benefits that were not told to us. They were all the
surprise benefits from using Tidy Models. So this brings us to our second adventure.
And as you know, sequels are always better than the original. No laughing. So we had
rewritten my modeling package. It was a lot more organized now. We discovered all these
new benefits. This is going to sound weird, but I was really helped by what Tidy Models
could not do for me. So I'm a data scientist, but I'm also a Lego data scientist. So a lot
of my value as a lead comes from knowing how the world of data science fits into the Lego
business. And Tidy Models really helped me do this better. So wherever I could, I used
the open source tools available with Tidy Models. And there's, of course, more packages
than this, but for simplicity, I used Tidy Model packages wherever I could, and those
functions wherever I could. And by doing this, I saved a bunch of time, and I got to use
that time to focus on my expertise, which is a little bit of modeling, but it's a lot
I know everything about Lego, and I know how Lego can use these models. So I got to spend
all this extra time I earned from using Tidy Models to focus on what I could add to these
models to really help the Lego group. So for example, if you look at preprocessing again,
recipes is essentially a bunch of these step functions that you can pipe together to transform
your data. And these are step functions that are used by data scientists everywhere. For
example, step normalize will take your numerical data, give it a mean of zero and standard
deviation of one, and these are very common things that data scientists everywhere use.
And this freed up my time to focus on my, I could use custom step functions, because
in my domain, I have some very specific transformations I have to use. I'm in marketing, we have to
add carryover effects to our data, we have to add diminishing returns, and these are
more specific to my domain. So I used all my free time, well, not free time, but extra
time that I earned from using the open source tools to make my custom step functions. And
this really added the Lego twist to my new modeling package. And I found opportunities
to add this Lego value add everywhere across this modeling pipeline. For example, my data,
our team has thousands of possible data series we could put in our models. You can't put
that much data in your models. So we had to spend a lot of time figuring out which data
sources belong in our models, so I was able to write tools to help us do that better.
The modeling process, I could spend more time making sure my model was better specified,
making sure our residuals were behaving better. Post-processing is huge for us. We have to
take all of our raw model output and make it make sense for the organization, like calculating
media uplifts and calculating return on investments coming out of the models. We have a lot of
functions here. I got to spend a lot of time on this very important part of the modeling
process. Business value, I had more time to work with our stakeholders by leveraging the
open source tools. And then on the flip side, when you leverage these open source tools,
you get their help with all the bugs. You outsource your bug squashing, because you're
going to hit fewer errors in the process. And when you do hit errors, there's a lot
more documentation out there on how to solve those errors. Rather, if you're writing your
own functions and your manual modeling functions, it's a lot harder to solve some of these errors.
So by leveraging this open source community and tools whenever I could, I just became
a much better Lego data scientist. I got to make sure that our models were working well
for my organization. Another big benefit I saw was speed. So no one else is going to
stand on the stage and tell you how fast Tidy Models is. Julia warned me about that. It
adds overhead. But actually, by the swap, we actually unlocked a lot of speed in a few
different ways. And I want to talk about those. With our process. So since I wasn't
running my own dplyr code and my TidyR code over and over for my data processing, my functions
just ran a lot faster. And that was very noticeable to us. And it was a huge win when we discovered
that. Our algorithm. We had originally in our models, we used Bayesian models. We had
manually written stand code to do that. That was really awesome, because we got to customize
every piece of that code or that model. But with Tidy Models, our stand arm works a lot
better with parsnip in Tidy Models. And that's a bunch of stand models prewritten and precompiled
by experts out there. So we leveraged those models, that algorithm instead this time around,
and that really sped us up. And then just our ways of working was a lot faster. So with
the swap to Tidy Models and the workflows process, we were able to keep now every single
part of the modeling process and development process on the same platform. We can basically
do our entire developments in one R notebook. And that really just saved us tons of data
scientists tons of time iterating over models, developing models, because we could move a
lot more quickly. And without switching environments and everything. So I can quantify this change.
We had a batch of models for one project that used to take about 30 minutes to run from
start to finish. Now they take just 60 seconds. That's a 30-fold increase for us and a really
measurable increase that helps our team work better. If we add that into the earlier example
of the Lego value add, we have a pretty awesome list of benefits. As you know, though, sometimes
benefits come with costs. This was no exception here. We did have a few extra new hurdles
with the Tidy Models swap. And so we had to kind of rethink our ways of working. So we're
used to solving some specific problems one way for four years. We had to come up with
some new ways. For one example is that algorithm. When we swap from our manually written STAN
code to RSTANARM, we gave up a lot of control. With STAN, we could customize really every
single prior distribution type based on a variable type. And when we swap to RSTANARM,
we're a lot more limited in what we can do. But whenever we came across these types of
challenges, we were able to kind of step back. Can we solve this problem that we're
used to solving one way, a new way? And every time we came across these problems, the answer
was yes, we could work with this. And by far, everywhere, the benefits of the Tidy Model
swap really outran the cost. So no regrets there. And this brings us to our final part.
So we had rewritten our code. It was a lot more organized. We had all these new benefits
that we weren't expecting. There was a twist, though. I was making all these changes to
a live product. So we had stakeholders we were working with in real time. So this is
my stealth adventure. It's my stealth adventure because my original goal was to sneak into
our product in the middle of the night. Hopefully no one noticed me. And I swapped out the old
models for the new ones. And hopefully no one notices. Kind of like this. I'm Tom Cruise
coming with my Tidy Models. And we could have succeeded with this. We could have swapped
out our old models for the new ones, and no one would have known the difference. But along
the way, we noticed that all the benefits that my team experienced with Tidy Models,
we could actually share those benefits with the stakeholders. So rather than sneak and
swap out the models, we could actually get them just as excited as we were. And we did
this on a few different areas. One is that we could build better models now. So Tidy
Models are written by experts across the globe in modeling. Experts who are better at modeling
than I am. So I'd be silly to ignore their expertise. So once we knew that with the new
package we could reproduce our old results, and that was an important step for us, we
then took it a step further and used all the tools that Tidy Models offered us to build
better models. So we got better residuals. We could get better fits. And so now our stakeholders
did see some changing numbers. But it was for a good reason. And we could talk them
through those changing numbers and sell them on it. Tidy Models enabled faster, more frequent
updates. So, sorry, since our data scientists could work faster, we could work faster with
our stakeholders. So as long as our stakeholders keep on feeding us new data and new ideas,
we can work with them almost in real time to take their ideas and data, spin it through
the models and see what happens. Is this change worth it or not? And this has improved our
stakeholder engagement so much. The ability to automate and to put into production. In
our old modeling package, production still had some very manual steps. I was getting
my fingers in all those steps. But now with Tidy Models, it's a lot easier to do that.
So we can work with our engineers, work with that workflows object, automate our data and
flows, pass them that object, and they can help us put into production a lot more easily
than we could before. Probably my favorite as a data scientist is that we can now answer
more complex questions with these Tidy Models. So with Tidy Models, it's a lot easier to
make assumptions and change assumptions on the fly. And so, for example, our stakeholders
love what-if scenarios. So what if we had doubled social media spend last Christmas?
Or what if we had moved this promotion a few weeks earlier? What would have happened? So
now we can go into our modeling pipeline, go to that green brick at the top, shake around
some data, and it will flow through all the other rest of the modeling steps, even including
the trained model, and tell us exactly what the model thinks would have happened in these
scenarios. So being able to give almost real-time simulations and optimizations to our stakeholders
was a huge win for us. And then finally, this is my day-to-day job, so I'm still learning
these new... I'm still unlocking new value with our stakeholders. And so ask me again
in a few months. I'll probably have some brand-new lists of benefits to share with you. So that's
it. Thank you so much. This was a course to talk about tidy models. Also really about
just embracing change in data science, that change can be scary. But we came out so much
better for our stakeholders than I benefited. So thank you. And if you want to talk about
tidy models afterwards, find me.
Thank you so much. Thank you.